---
layout: ../../../layouts/Main.astro
title: Update October 2021
tags: blog
date: 2021-10-26
---

# Update October 2021

Hello, it's been a while since I've updated this, but I've been pretty busy so there's a bit to update.

## Website Generator Update

I've been meaning to rewrite how this site is generated to move away from 11ty for a bit.
11ty is really good, but I've wanted something that integrates better into the JS ecosystem (easily allows use of npm deps, has a bundler, etc).
At first I was considering just writing a basic TypeScript app that would do all the site gen stuff for me and use something like Parcel as a part of that.
Since then I've stumbled across Astrojs which seems to actually do everything I want out of the box.
I'm pretty happy so far so hopefully I can stick with Astrojs going forward.

## Switch to Focusing on Scala/Scala.js Implementation

Previously I've been writing about how I have been focusing on a TypeScript implementation of Ligature.
I've sort of ran some issues with the TypeScript implementation.
While I was able to write code relatively fast it was very easy build technical debt at the same time.
When I tried to address that debt I hit a bit of a brick wall.
I won't go into detail here but I started looking into alterative languages.
After some experimentation I found that Scala.js ticked all my boxes and would also let me share code between the JS and JVM implementations of Ligature.
So Scala has become the main language/ecosystem I'm using for Ligature.
I still plan on working on a Rust implementation but that is pretty low priority right now.
